This is pretty much the 80%
of you'll do with Git.
If this is all you ever learn about Git,
you'll be moderately successful.
Like you can get pretty dang far
knowing about Git add path to file or
a file pattern,
Git commit dash M and Git status.
If you can just know those three commands,
you're already doing pretty dang good,
okay, okay?
So, git add will stage the file,
it will add it to the index.
Git commit will take your staged file,
index file, and
then turn it into a commit,
with your author name,
the time, the contents of the change,
all that and we'll produce out a SHA.
Did you just know that SHA stands for
Secure Hashing Algorithm?
Isn't that kinda disappointing?
It's a variant of MD5.
Either way,
it is always disappointing to know that
SHA means Secure Hashing Algorithm.
And then Git status will just say,
here's the state of your repo.
All right, problem.
We want to trace the steps of
Git from untrack to tracked.
Don't forget these ones right here.
This is what I want you to do.
I want you to create
a file called first.md.
I want you to check the status of Git.
Then I want you to add
first.md to the staging area,
recheck the status,
see that it's being tracked,
commit it with a friendly message,
and then check the status again.
If you're pretty good with Git already,
you already know these basic commands,
please just create a commit
really quickly with first.md.
We're gonna use it and
we're gonna do something.
All right, I'll start doing it right now.
So I'm gonna jump over here.
I'm gonna go to first.md, I'll go
hello fem, there we go, Git status,
you'll see right here, untracked file.
Git has no idea anything about this file.
First time it's ever seen it.
It doesn't have any information about it.
If I go Git add this, and then redo it,
you'll see now we are tracking it.
It's officially a part
of the Git ecosystem,
but only on a singular level, meaning
that it's only a part of the staging,
it has no prior information besides for
staging.
If I go git commit -m,
friendly message, look how nice that is.
It's gonna tell me, hey, this is the first
commit of the repo, the root commit,
it has no parents.
Typically, I usually go with Batman for
my first commit.
I think it's funny cuz Batman
doesn't have any parents.
It's like you gotta always go for that on
the first repo, I think it's fantastic.
And there you go.
So we've made our first commit.
So that means if I go Git status,
says right here, what branch you're on,
nothing to commit.
There you go.
The tree is clean.
The changes are in the repo.
One of the common activities you
should get into the habit of or
at least know that its available is Git log.
Git log allows you to look
at the history of the repo.
It's a very powerful thing and we're gonna
go over a few of the options today, and
we're gonna use it very regularly
throughout this course.
Cuz it's just awesome to
have in your Batbelt,
I guess we're going with
Batman themed things.
Anyways, so review or explore,
check out, man Git log,
this I want you to open up the man
page and actually look at it.
And I want you to search
for-- graph and-- decorate,
and just kind of do a quick read,
get kind of used to reading the manual.
I'll do it along with you, man Git log.
There's graph right here and
if I find the option,
there's the draw text based graphical
representation of the commit history.
Okay, good to know we have that.
All right, and then we can go decorate,
let's find the option,
may have to go backwards, decorate
often is a little bit harder to read.
It prints out the ref names
of any commits that are shown.
Probably not really sure
what a ref name is.
Remember, everything's a commit,
everything has a SHA, and
you can reference those commits with
some sort of named item branches, right?
Branches, tags, there you go.
Or the very special one named head.
We'll go over head in a little bit.
All right, problem.
Display the history of your
repo with graph and decorate.
So I'll do it right now.
Git log, graph, decorate.
Often you don't actually have to use
decorate if it's just printing out
the standard in.
Kinda like a little fun exercise to do.
Watch this.
If I go this, I drop decorate and
I just do graph.
You'll notice right here,
head points to master.
If I take this and put it out to
a file and then cat out the file,
look at what's missing.
That bit of information.
So, if you're ever,
printing out anything to a file,
you need decorate to
actually get decorate.
You need that flag to tell you, hey,
list out all the named commits for me.
Nice little, just nice little thing.
Thanks so often you don't use decorate
like in practice because you're just
looking at the log,
just something to be aware of.
Unfortunately, we only have one commit.
So the graph option really isn't
like super fantastic, right?
You're not actually seeing a graph,
there's nothing to graph.
But you'll notice that there's like
this little asterik right here.
And that little asterik is
your only node in the graph.
So that's the beginning of the graph,
item when you use log.
We'll look at it a lot more.
All right, hopefully everybody's
on the same page at this point.
So we're gonna now get into some
of the git internals, right?
We're going from 0 to 15 and
then we're just gonna jump right
in at like 200 miles an hour.
So we're gonna go all the way in.
Again, SHAs, they're just a 0 through 9, A
through F string of characters 40 of them.
And so
now we're gonna do the plumbing part.
I'm very excited.
By the way you can specify the first
seven characters of any SHA, and
git will resolve that out.
So you just need to get at least
the first seven characters.
You can use log to be able
to get out your SHAs.
There's other ways to get out SHAs,
but log is the simplest way.
You don't have to know this one special
command for getting out SHAs and said,
you can just use log.
So, a problem.
Find the first commit SHA of your first
commit.
And I want you to copy it
to your system clipboard.
This is the important part.
Everybody has to do this, okay?
Cuz now we're doing the internal.
So get the SHA.
So me, I'll go git log, and
I can come up here and there we go.
So I have it nicely on
my clipboard right now.
Quick question.
Why is your SHA different than mine?
Mine is 8721A,
yours is probably not any of that.
Why is it different?
>> Different inputs.
Not just based on the like
one markdown file,
but also your user.name, .email,
maybe other environmental vars.
>> Exactly.
So you pretty much got the idea.
My SHA is based off what I committed, the
time of the day, my username, my email.
So I should produce a unique
one comparatively to you.
So if we both at the exact same time of
the day, both committed the same thing,
it should produce different SHAs.
Cuz it's an amalgamation of
a bunch of different options.
Just so if you're wondering,
you can't follow along directly,
you won't be able to just
use the SHA that's produced,
you'll have to be able
to grab out your own.